http://JUDIS.NIC.IN 
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 1 of 1 
PETITIONER:
THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF INDIA (M)
        Vs.
RESPONDENT:
BHARAT KUMAR & ORS.
DATE OF JUDGMENT:       12/11/1997
BENCH:
B.N. KIRPAL, V.N. KHARE
ACT:
HEADNOTE:
JUDGMENT:
                         O R D E R
     Leave granted
     We have heard Mr. Harish Salve and Mr. Soli J.Sorabjee,
learned  counsel   for  the  appellant  and  Mr.  Mathai  M.
Paideday, learned counsel for the respondents.
     On a  perusal of  the impugned  judgment  of  the  High
Court, referring  to which learned counsel for the appellant
pointed out  certain portions,  particularly in paras 13 and
18  including   the  operative  part  in  support  of  their
submissions, we find that the judgment does not call for any
interference.   We are  satisfied that the distinction drawn
by the  High Court  between a "Bandh" and a call for general
strike or  "Hartal" is  well made  out with reference to the
effect of  a "Bandh"  on the  fundamental  rights  of  other
citizens.   There cannot  be any  doubt that the fundamental
rights of the people as a whole cannot be subservient to the
claim of  fundamental right  of a  n individual  or  only  a
section of  the  people.    it  is  on  the  basis  of  this
distinction that  the High  Court has rightly concluded that
there cannot be any right to call or enforce a "Bandh" which
interferes with  the exercise of the fundamental freedoms of
other citizens,  in addition to causing national loss in may
ways.   We may also add that the reasoning given by the High
Court, particularly  those in  paragraphs 12,  13 and 17 for
the ultimate  conclusion and  directions in  paragraph 18 is
correct with which we are in agreement.  We may also observe
that  the   High  Court   has  drawn    a  very  appropriate
distinction between  a "Bandh"  on the  hand and  a call for
general strike  or  "Hartal"  on  the  other.    We  are  in
agreement with the view taken by the High Court.
     The appeals are dismissed accordingly. No costs.
