http://JUDIS.NIC.IN 
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 1 of 2 
PETITIONER:
H.U.D.A. & ANR.
        Vs.
RESPONDENT:
ANIL SABHARWAL & ORS.[ WITH I.A.NOS.4 & 5/97 IN C.A.NO. 8637
DATE OF JUDGMENT:       05/12/1997
BENCH:
VERMA CJI, B.N. KIRPAL
ACT:
HEADNOTE:
JUDGMENT:
                      J U D G M E N T
Verma, CJI
     Leave granted  limited to the question indicated in our
order dated 7.7.9
     The grievance of the appellants is that our order dated
7.5.97 in  Sanjay Jain  Vs. Anil  Sabharwal & Ors. [ (SLP(C)
.../97 ( CC.4325/97 ] has been misconstrued to mean that the
legality of  allotment of plots made under the discretionary
quota even prior to 31.10.89 has been directed by that order
to be  reopened and  examined. It  is submitted  that such a
misinterpretation results  from a misconstruction of certain
words in that order, namely:
     "We are constrained to observe that
     the    accountability     of    the
     authorities who are responsible for
     making these  arbitrary  allotments
     which have  been rightly  cancelled
     by  the  High  Court  needs  to  be
     examined after  their  identity  is
     fixed in an appropriate proceeding.
     In addition,  it is  also expedient
     that any  remaining  allotments  of
     the kind  which have been cancelled
     by the  High Court  should also  be
     treated also be treated alike. This
     exercise has  not bee  performed by
     the High  Court in the preset case.
     It is, therefore, expedient that as
     a follow  up action, the High Court
     should  proceed   to  complete  the
     exercise."
     It is  sufficient for  us to  clarify that by the above
order dated  7.5.97 this  Court upheld  cancellation of  the
allotments  out   of  the  discretionary  quota  made  after
31.10.89  and   it  was  further  said  that  any  remaining
allotments of  the same  kind should  be  treated  alike  to
complete the  exercise. In  other  words,  our  order  dated
7.5.97 contained  the direction  to treat all allotments out
of the  discretionary quota  made after 31.10.89 without any
exception, in  order to  examine the  accountability of  the
http://JUDIS.NIC.IN 
SUPREME COURT OF INDIA
Page 2 of 2 
concerned authorities  as also  to avoid  any discrimination
between allotters  subsequent to  31.10.89. That  order was,
therefore, concerned  entirely with the allotment made after
31.10.89   and did  not refer to any allotment prior to that
date. We  consider it  necessary to  say  so  to  avoid  any
possible  misinterpretation  by  this  Court’s  order  dated
7.5.97.
     We  may,  however,  add  that  the  only  question  for
examination  by   this  Court   in  Sanjay   Jain  vs.  Anil
Sabharwal’s case being all the allotments made subsequent to
31.10.89,  our   order  is  also  not  to  be  construed  as
inhibiting any  separate/independent action  in  respect  of
allotments for  any other  period including  period prior to
31.10.89. The appeal is disposed of with this clarification.
